okay let's get started so welcome guys
to another
healthy gamer gg stream my name is olive
kenoji i'm a psychiatrist practicing in
boston massachusetts
can you tell us how masturbation is bad
so we'll get into that kind of stuff so
let's let's hop in
welcome friends hey um
so let's just do a quick uh we'll do
like a volume
check as we do introductions um
so welcome guys so i think this is this
is another stream talking about
i guess nofap and porn addiction
so first of all huge props see all for
coming on and talking about something
that
is a community we usually don't talk
about pretty openly
um and so we had a porn addiction stream
a couple of
months ago now and i think it was
actually
the most positive youtube comment
section i've ever seen on youtube which
is just really really bizarre
because it's something that normally
comes with a lot of shame so props to
you guys
for coming on and talking about this uh
so if you guys are on twitch i highly
recommend minimizing it
because i think it's only going to be
distracting
and let's go ahead and start with
introductions and and why don't y'all
you know tell us what you want to be
called over the course of the stream
um and tell us a little bit about your
experience with nofap or porn addiction
so i think i'll start um i'm going by
bob today
okay um i first
saw porn when i was about 12 years old
um
and there was a lot of like i had a lot
of like family
conflict and stuff at the time um and
that was my first introduction into it
and
uh it got a little bit better when i was
around 18.
i got a girlfriend and then um
lost said girlfriend and i started
looking at porn again
uh when i was around 19 and
it got gradually worse and worse along
with uh
you know issues of social anxiety and
isolation
along with the internet addiction and
then around
23 my dad got cancer and died
and that exacerbated it and it got worse
um and i had a series of
panic attacks and like pretty severe
issues um and it seemed to dovetail with
that
uh internet addiction video game
addiction and pornography addiction
um and there was a long period of using
for
hours on end losing sleep that sort of
thing
um intensification of just weirdness
in general in that department um
and i only started getting control of it
when i got to be around
26 or 27 and started thinking about it
as a problem
and tried to do what's
you know a streak for three days a week
a month and
i noticed that a lot of the time when i
would get on a long streak
a lot of these issues would come up
again
my life would improve in some ways or it
would get more difficult in other ways
um and whenever i got
on the the brahmacharya channel with all
these other people and i started talking
to them
we really we really had um
it was a great support group and it
really has helped me a lot to
figure out how to manage this why it's
happening
how i can sort of use this discipline to
improve my self-understanding in my life
and that is where i'm at now
look at the introduction bob thanks for
sharing man
thanks for having me anyone else want to
go
yeah i'll go next uh you can call me
moon um
so i first started watching porn
whenever i was you know probably about
12 as well
and it wasn't really a problem when i
was a kid but it kind of ramped up to
a way i would bury my emotions and kind
of
escape reality i'd say and
um i kind of built up to a really bad
problem you know in the past few years
and uh currently i'm on my longest
streak probably
in like five six years right now i have
50 days
without it of like porn or masturbation
so i'm pretty
happy with that but um yeah definitely
was a way that i would numb
my emotions okay
thanks for sharing moon we'll definitely
get into
you know what that what the nofap
streak is like and things like that so
cool sounds good
thanks for coming on man yeah then i go
next
you can call me atsai i
watched porn the first time when i was
10 years old
and it was usually i would say normal
like once a day and i had no
seemingly no problems outside of it but
then i became a christian on my own and
discovered
it's a sin and i need to stop and
i really had a hard time stopping and i
could only go for like
three days and then at some point i
googled porn addiction and then i found
oh it's not just
religious talk that it's harmful but
it's there also
a lot of there's also a lot of
scientific evidence and
many reports from people and seeing all
these reports
and describing their problems they had i
and
these were exactly the problems also i
had at the time
like social anxiety i was very shy and i
didn't
wanted to interact with people a lot and
once i got into it um i got my
longest streak back then it was around
it was in 2016
and i had a 70 day long streak
and in that time my life improved
drastically
in areas especially in like
social anxiety talking with girls and
just being in general i wasn't depressed
anymore i had more motivation and stuff
like that
but ever since then it got slightly
worse and i'm now
at a place where i'm struggling to get
over one week
and i started also to binge a lot which
didn't happen
which means like five times in a row
which is like extremely unhealthy hence
yeah that's
where i am right now wow sounds like
quite the journey
it's outside yeah exactly
thanks for sharing man
i think i'ma go next um you can call me
flo
[Music]
i started watching porn when i was 12
and it was like
at the same time as i was entering high
school and
that time a few friends that i had
been with on like primary school kind of
like turned on me and started bullying
me
in high school and um
yeah it was like pretty good timing to
discover pawn because i would like use
it to numb
like the pain i felt at that time um
around the same time i started like
getting like suicidal thoughts
and um yeah i'm not sure if i had like a
depression but i'm yeah i'm pretty
certain
and um then i
um just like went with it until i was 18
and traveling around in australia for a
year
and being there i had like no social
anxiety and like a lot of good friends
that
were there for me and i discovered that
i was
addicted to pornography because i was
just
um using it less and emotions were
coming up
and i was like feeling a lot of
different
emotions and um i started to
do like nofap and wasn't really able to
stop
and when i was back at home after
traveling
it got worse because i moved back in
with my parents
and i had like
lots of family issues with them
beforehand
and i felt really helpless
and so i went to a psychiatrist
and started therapy basically
with somebody like doing like behavioral
addictions and um
yeah i've been trying to quit since then
and
yeah i still feel pretty helpless with
this topic
sorry you feel that way hopefully we'll
i don't know if we can
make you feel less helpless but we're
hopefully we'll try to understand it a
little bit
sounds like you put in a lot of effort
to trying to get a control like get it
get a handle on it
has it been yeah all of us i think are
like
pretty um like trying their best
yeah is that good enough
well um
we all relapse at some point
but um i think it has improved
definitely also being with these guys
and
chatting about it cool
welcome club thanks for sharing thank
you
okay and uh i'll go next so on the
discord my name is azalea
bayes but i'll go by zz uh shout out to
ez moon
from drama chariot discord and my friend
tyler
so everybody else forgot but um so i
first watched porn when
i was 11 um and i got like a lot of
viruses
on my mom's computer so i mean everybody
i think everybody remembers that from
the old days of the internet it wasn't
exactly safe
to watch porn but now uh if i do
use i uh use it on my mobile phone which
i think is probably one of the hardest
things because now we have mobile phones
and ipads and that sort of thing the
longest streak i ever had was when i was
in a dual diagnosis
rehab so i have a i have like a mental
disability as well as like traditional
addiction um so 30 days without the
internet means
30 days without porn so
yeah and recently i found it very hard
to really start a streak a lot of
traumatic events have happened recently
i got into a car accident
i recently overdosed got into mental
hospitals i've been in mental hospitals
in and out
due to my disability but otherwise i'm
happy to be on the stream
and uh hopefully this helps other people
as well as myself
oh man wow it sounds like you've been
had some challenges
you all have
i guess that leaves me yeah sorry if i
ramble
um you guys can call me annie
uh i'm 20 years old and uh
i think i fur and tell me if my mic is
too loud um
first a time i got i saw porn
i think it was in my early teens and it
was mainly out of curiosity
um but now that i look back i think i
was kind of using it to
kind of escape my bullying and my very
toxic relationship with my parents
and um
sorry give me a sec
um and uh
i didn't think much about it and uh i
moved to america when i was 15.
and uh as my life started getting worse
um
i started using porn more as an escaping
tool
and uh to escape my insecurities mainly
because of my bad relationship
especially with my parents
and um
i started using it as a stress tool and
as a sleeping tool
as a stress relief tool and as a
sleeping tool and
um my depression my anxiety and my
trauma got
childhood trauma i got very bad over
time and the more and more
i got i felt deeper into depression the
more and more i started using porn
and uh eventually i kind of had like uh
i fell down very low i did stuff i
didn't want to do
like partying and being with people i
don't want to be and
i kind of lost it mentally and
i started a self-help journey after that
and i've been doing really good
and like doing good in school and
exercising and
breathing and meditating and uh i real
the more and more i started helping
myself the more and more started
realizing that
i'm addicted to porn uh i didn't want to
admit it
but um starting january i started really
taking care of myself
and uh i took it as a challenge to start
nofap
to prove to myself that i'm not addicted
to porn and the exact opposite happened
i um i couldn't last for more than a few
days
and when i came back i was binging
all day it consumed me i would do it
five six times in a row um very
unhealthy and
my whole day was just porn and and
fapping
and for months now i haven't been able
to keep a
streak longer than a week and actually
today will make my longest streak
of seven days and um
it's uh porn addiction i think is just
part of the puzzle
and um for me it kind of
fits with depression and anxiety and um
what i'm trying to learn from this
stream is mainly uh i guess the only
thing always holding me back from
keeping a very long streak
is um i kind of asked myself why am i
uh defying my urges like i feel great
when i'm on nofap uh
i feel very good i feel normal as you
would say and then when i binge i feel
horrible but
the urges feel great like the pleasure
so i don't know if i'm doing something
wrong by
defying my pleasures or defying the
urges
for like feeling normal on no fap
and sorry if i was speaking for too long
but i guess that's it no that that's
great man
it's bonnie yeah any
any okay
so that that was awesome in productions
everyone i think um if it's okay with
you guys i'm gonna just
try to outline like kind of a thread for
our discussions today
i'm gonna point out a couple of themes
and then propose sort of a
order to tackle them so
the first thing i think we should talk a
little bit about is
um you know how do you understand if
you're addicted to porn so i'm hearing
from many people
that they had kind of this journey where
they like sort of figured out at some
point
i'm addicted to porn and that this is
not okay
i think related to that a lot of people
have mentioned that they find
their addiction to be harmful um
and you know some people have mentioned
science or consequences or things like
that
so maybe we can talk first of all about
how you know you're addicted to porn
secondly about what's harmful or
unhealthy about it
third is kind of exploring so everyone
seems like they
add some difficulties or challenges and
that they use porn as an escape
so i think we should sort of think a
little bit about that idea of porn as an
escape
the other interesting uh thing that that
people have mentioned is that as they
start to do nofap
things come up for them right so i think
that's something that is very very
uh that's something that is very poorly
understood
so like even if we define and people
have a sense of like
you know this is what porn addiction is
i think one of the challenges that
happens is like as you start doing nofap
or something else
as you take away the coping mechanism
everything that it's been
balancing is going to come back up
so what's that experience been like for
you guys so um
and then yeah so like numb things coming
up
stuff like that and then um i think one
person said
i think it was bob who said you use the
phrase intensification of weirdness i'm
not sure exactly what he was referring
to
but you know it sounds like that the
journey has certain challenges that are
unexpected
and hopefully as we understand like what
we're dealing with we can get
better at dealing with it um then what
i'd like to kind of
think a little bit about is how you guys
got to nofap
like what nofap is what's been y'all's
experience of nofap and maybe that has
something to do with the coping
mechanisms as well and what comes up
uh and then we can think a little bit
about
um brahmacharya and what that means
because i imagine a lot of people
don't know what y'all are talking about
um what
what your experience with our community
has been
uh and then the last thing that we'll
kind of explore
is sort of like how to move forward so
this will be a discussion
um you know some people have mentioned
that they've tried behavioral treatment
uh things about defying the urge how can
we understand
urges how can can we understand what's
healthy what our body is doing what our
mind is doing
and and sort of maybe try to think a
little bit about like how to take
another step forward for those of you
who have done
longer streets maybe you can share with
us
you know what you've been able to do or
how you were able to do it
and we can talk a little bit about
streaks and you know how long they last
and what makes them easy what makes them
hard
does that sound okay this all sounds
great sounds good yeah
okay nice so let's start with how do you
know you're addicted to porn
um can i prefer something because it
goes like
hand in hand with what nofap is and how
we
like how we realized um
[Music]
so like nofap started off by like one
guy
um on the internet i don't know his name
but he started like a community where he
was trying to build awareness for porn
addiction
and he introduced it as like a challenge
i think of 30 days to just try and
stop consuming pornography and
like pmo so like pawn masturbation and
orgasm
and he basically built like
a pretty big community around him
there's a popular subreddit that's
called nofap
and basically i think all of us
realized because we tried to quit and
personally i looked at the nofap website
and i saw that there were like some
physical symptoms that people with
like abuse of masturbation had like for
example
um issues with
erections or um performing
um in bed with actual people in
contrast to master bedding on your own
or something like
a a fog in your mind that you can't
really think clearly from times to times
and i
basically checked like every single mark
or every box on that list and
yeah i thought it was um um
time to try and quit okay
when you say fog is that
during like is that like pretty constant
or is does that
change with fapping or not fapping
um before quitting i wasn't really sure
what it meant
but um basically when you
abstain from it like a longer time you
see that
for like a really long constant time
you've been thinking differently
and maybe you didn't have as much focus
in that time when you were like
relapsing every day or like a couple
times a day
so it was like a constant thing okay
great thanks for sharing
anybody else wanna chime in about how
they
figured out they were addicted sure um
to me i think like of porn as a escaping
tool
right and uh when thinking of any
escaping tool in my eyes
um you you see that you're using it
like if it helps you escape you you
understand if you're
spending hours like on twitch or youtube
or video games right
once you've done it for for a while
you're like okay
well i've been using this for a long
time i must be escaping right
and then it also comes to understanding
why you're using everything
so to me at least with porn it was like
i realized that i'm it's just a habit
anytime i
feel sad or stressed out i would use it
i would try to escape it
so once i realized that there was a
there was a
system right i guess stress i get
anxious i get sad i use
porn that's what i realized that like oh
i need it every time i i i get those
feelings
that's what i thought was addicting and
i try to deny it and then what also
proved it to me was
once i started nofap i couldn't deny it
i
i needed it when i felt those feelings
like when those feelings came back like
anxiety depression whatever right
whatever insecurities i had
and i didn't have that tool i felt i
felt horrible
i felt like i needed to escape and porn
is
easily the most instant gratification
for the least amount of work uh and it
also helps with relationships
like like um when you're insecure with
relationships and stuff
so it's a very common very common
escaping tool
bob i saw thanks a lot uh andy
thank you bob i i saw you nodding
emphatically at one point
yeah so uh i i
i was thinking that like when there's a
point where you can tell
that that your behavior and your life is
revolving around this thing and
you know that there's some component in
it that makes you feel better you're
hitting that
dopamine button over and over and over
again and
your for me it got bad to the point
where
a lot of lack of sleep watching it
consume my time and behavior
it got obvious to me but the only point
where i realized it was
that bad of an addiction is whenever the
idea was put in my mind that you could
try to quit
and that maybe this isn't good for you
you know
and like he said whenever you can't stop
you just know that this thing has
control over your your desire and your
behavior and it's
the effects are not you know just um
you know but trivial they're they're
they're pretty they've been pretty
serious
thanks for sharing that if i can add to
that for a second
um yeah it seems like um
when you relapse at least for me i don't
know if this is for anyone else
it feels like every like you're kind of
controlled by as as bob said it
kind of controls your like actions and
emotions and
you become someone else when for me i
become someone else
when i relapse my whole for me i mean
at best it's my whole day sometimes my
whole week
right like when i relapse because i
become it it like it controls me i feel
like i'm not myself that's why
i feel no fap is so great when you're on
it because i feel normal i guess is what
you say but
yeah i just want to add to that okay we
can talk about some of that
yeah the thing is for me when it started
when i discovered nofap it was just
i didn't have this realization that for
example
i how would you put it
it wasn't like i was in a deep mess it
was just like
purely for the religious purpose and so
um it just it was basically just this
and
having like a very big spiritual aspect
was for me a bit really big um helping
points
for trying to quit because i knew now i
i'm just i'm distancing myself from the
sin and i can be
i no longer have to be too much ashamed
of it
and really feeling like some
kind of spiritual or like big
meaning behind it and like some
connection to
gods and maybe nature
wait did he crash or is it just me yeah
i think
he lied out i gotta get scared
okay well we'll we'll come to back to
outside when
he's he's back with us um
anybody else kind of want to add how
they kind of
yeah go for it yeah so i'd say the way
that i found out that i was addicted was
it became routine
i would do it every day i would think
like do i even want to watch porn
tonight or like right now
i would think no and i would still do it
and i'd say an easy way for someone
watching to figure out
if they're addicted to porn is to try to
go let's say one week
two weeks without it and see if there's
any kind of like
you know want for it or desire and
like i have a friend who i bet 20 bucks
and he's pretty broke i bet 20 bucks
that he couldn't go two weeks without
you know watching porn
and he went like i think it was like six
or seven days so
i mean most people can't really go that
long without it so in my opinion that
means they're probably addicted
um what's what also plays like a role is
that it's not
it doesn't mean you don't have sexual
desires like for most of us
it it isn't even like a sexual thing
anymore
because um like
abstaining from porn doesn't mean you
can't like touch yourself
or have sexual thoughts or anything
but it's let's say purely the the pawn
that you're addicted to
some people try nofap which includes not
masturbating
but um like you can check if you're
addicted to pawn by just quitting pawn
and you can still have all the desires
that's like not
interesting yeah that that's a really
important point
i think so so it's it's not just the
masturbation
component or the orgasm component there
can be just a pure porn addiction where
you can still
have other kinds of sexual activity i
completely agree
um it it really seems like a dopamine
hijack
like the other stuff video game
addiction internet addiction
all that stuff it's just a different
flavor i think
great that's how i i think you uh cut
out there you were talking a little bit
yeah
yeah i'm sorry for that no problem
when did it cut out i think you were
talking a little bit about
sort of the the advantage of having sort
of a spiritual
component um something about a lack of
shame
that that helped you kind of overcome
shame yeah because it was
um at that time really like for me
a shameful thing and something in
general i didn't really
identify with even before like when all
the other
guys in my class would talk about porn
it was something i didn't like talking
about
and then when the religious aspect came
and said this is wrong and i need to
stop that was
something i could really identify with
and
as soon as i got over the first hurdles
like i always relapsed at day three
and then when i got over that hurdle it
just
flowed from there naturally and i just
felt
a real sense of pride of controlling
myself
and not engaging in this behavior i
don't want to be associated with
and so also the spiritual
aspect really helped me because i felt
like
it could be something because now i'm
atheist so things have changed since
then but
i would say i associated with nofap
something with a greater purpose like
being a
godly man and just having pride in
myself that i can
like i can take control over myself
which felt really good at that time
your religious journey sounds
fascinating outside
it's actually kinda um
[ __ ] up because it wasn't
i got into end time stuff and it was
actually kind of traumatizing because
at that time it shattered my whole world
view
and i was engaged in a lot of
conspiracies and
it's i'm in the i'm now really glad i'm
out of it because
it has gotten to a point where i cut
social ties with friends
i had but i kept
the nofap stuff because i know that it
isn't just
religious bogus there's actually science
behind it and
yeah cool sounds like a fascinating
story maybe for another day
um so do y'all wanna talk a little bit
about the harmful
effects of of being addicted to
pornography
um i've got an idea about like uh
addiction i just was the
last person to talk about go forward um
so
based on what otsa said um essentially i
view addiction in general as a spiritual
malady i was talking about this with bob
and a couple others uh last night and
what i view addiction is is it's a
spiritual malady in the sense that
there's a so this is a very catholic
interpretation of things but everybody
has a god-shaped hole in their heart and
everybody tries to fill it with
something else whether it be porn
or drugs or alcohol everybody has
something
which they need and what religion
and spirituality tells us is what we
need is the divine so
brahmacarya uh with saud guru said is
that it's one
on the path to the divine and it is the
pursuit of joy
instead of the pursuit of pleasure and
just add on what everybody else was
saying
um i'd say that if you
if you my biggest definition of
addiction is if you try to stop
but you find that you cannot that's
addiction
like the the harmful effects and
everything else comes later
it might not be there right now but if
you try to stop and you can't so try to
go a week
without uh fapping and if you can't you
might be an addict
okay yeah that i think that's go ahead
annie yep i think uh
for me addiction is
i just had a brain fart i'm sorry um
i think you were about to say something
about what your understanding of
addiction was or how you define it
yeah i just forgot what my point was
gonna be no problem i'm sure it'll come
back up um
i'll let you know so um let's think a
little bit about
so we can talk about addiction as a
spiritual malady maybe towards the end
and just how we understand
yeah uh i figured out um why i think
porn addiction is so
bad is because it's a instant
gratification tool
you're doing pretty much minimal work
in seconds or minutes or whatever and
you're getting
the one of the biggest dopamine effects
as you can
from from uh you know pleasure like
sexual pleasure
um and i think that's very toxic to
because it kind of sucks you into like
not put any work
and uh get instant gratification for it
unlike with like going out and searching
for
for like a partner and uh having a
relationship with them an intimate
relationship and
having sex as a connection rather than
just
an instant gratification tool i think
that's what's horrible about porn
addiction
or even you know even trying attempting
to
you know deal with those thoughts and
emotions about how to relate to other
people
to connect with other people you know
it's just much easier to just
have this compulsion and desire and then
that goes away
yeah we'll definitely get to that
um i i think in terms of how to move
forward i'm going to kind of table some
of those ideas about
what addiction is and and how we
understand it
what would you guys say are the harmful
effects
of uh porn addiction
um there's one thing i i'm still like
really worried about which is
um over sexualization which means that
um whenever i'm at like a bus stop
and i see like attractive
women um my
head goes right into like sexual
fantasies
and stuff like that um and i don't
like i don't have sexual desires at that
point
basically like i'm not horny but um
i fantasize instantly and
um like
that can even mess with friendships
for example that you just can't see
a person that like likes you for who you
are
other than as like this object
and it sucks because i know that
um it's not right and i'm
kind of being addicted to that person
but i have no
way of um like it's not like uh
there's no off switch to that it's just
like a like a mode my mind goes into
when i see attractive people
so i wanted there was also yeah if i
could just say one
yeah okay go ahead real quick outside so
i want to just
highlight something that we'll get back
to so i want you guys to notice for a
second that
what flow is saying is that he says he's
being a dick
but i don't think that that's accurate
so what's happening is that flow's mind
is automatically doing like so he's like
he laid it out pretty well right so
his mind automatically turns on a
particular program
whenever he gets it gets exposed to
certain stimuli
and flow himself doesn't want to think
those thoughts and he's not even horny
so if we think about like horniness
horniness is sort of like a
um you know it's sort of like a whole
being kind of thing
right and and what we can notice in flow
is that his mind has a certain kind of
like automaticity to it
that he himself is not happy about but
that's not flow
that's just the way his mind has been
programmed
and we'll kind of get to that more but
outside go ahead sorry
yeah concerning the it's like the
objectification of women is definitely a
big part of
porn and i saw that with a lot of my
friends at the time
and it was also something which i wasn't
really
like usually it's it would be considered
normal but it was
sometimes with my friends they would
talk just too much about how
like the body of a girl looks and how
nice it is but they would never talk
about
like the human aspect of a girl and when
i got
into my long streaks that definitely
started for me when i could really go
there was the first time i really
started to have friendships
with girls and not just have a
sexual interest in them it's like there
but
it's you start to develop more a
holistic view of
a woman of girls you see more the
personality because at some point
for me it was like every girl looked
that good that the
only thing that would like
is now differentiating them would be the
personality
and it feels kind of nicer to not just
look at the body but also start seeing
women as humans more which was for me
not the case before all of that how do
the rest of you all feel about what atai
is saying
i totally agree yeah um yes i feel like
porn makes you objectify women a lot and
once you're on nofap
for me at least it felt like i could
have like just a normal conversation
with a girl without
thinking anything or you know just
viewing them as a human you know
so what i think it is is a um a kind of
perceptual distortion
because there's that connection with the
dopamine
thing it's like um it's almost like it
it primes for that
and whenever you're taking that away
yeah and pouring conditions you for that
i mean no one
no one ever just goes on the porn site
and looks for
personality traits or something it's
just um
like it's just like body parts
and not a whole human that's the
category makes you feel at home
yeah and it's also the problem that has
gotten really
specific and it is also
tied to the desensitization with porn
addiction
with you needing more and more extreme
stuff
like i think for any one of us the stuff
you view at the beginning
doesn't stay the same and for some
people it gets
really extreme and i think that's why
there are these
like categories of stuff which you would
never
do in real life because
like the porn industry is just out for
profit
and if people are desensitized to the
stuff that is already there they need to
produce
more extreme stuff and that is also
a site of porn addiction which can be
really harmful that you are
training your brain to only become like
attracted to certain things which are
really
far from normality fantastical even
i i think that's a great point um i do
think that porn
um kind of builds a lie
on what sex is supposed to be and
i feel like it's kind of porn has kind
of been integrated in the culture
more where we kind of kind of view sex
more as a transaction
rather than a connection and i think
that's a big
big problem that porn builds and um
yeah i guess that's my point so can i
ask a little bit like of an off-topic
question that may be a
a touch controversial sure
sure so there are communities on the
internet
that actually actively try
to do the opposite of what you guys are
describing which is to view women
to view relationships with women as
transactional
um to think about women actively
teach and advocate for a view that does
not
view women as people but as like so i'm
thinking predominantly of communities
like red pill
are you all familiar with red pill yeah
yeah yeah
uh so does somebody want to explain what
red pill is
as far as i know it's just basically
there's a lot of they have the i think
they have the thoughts from
evolution and they think that there are
just certain evolutionary aspects that
make a man attractive
like status money and
all that stuff and they are really into
gaming
or daytime game where they try to figure
out the perfect way to approach women
and to get just the they try to figure
out the perfect way to
convince women to have sex with them but
also
not in the long term because they also
think that women have the
polygamous nature and they also are
just out for resources
and not very like relationship on the
human to human level
it's just very animalistic thinking i
would say it sounds like an online
fraternity
yeah that's a great way to describe it
so so like
negative yeah so what do you guys think
about that
it's [ __ ] up why
um you're making the woman literally
objects in their eyes
and they're not only doing it for
themselves but they're actually teaching
it to others
and spreading that toxic mindset
but what's what's wrong with that i know
it sounds like a weird question
but um kind of like they were saying
earlier i mean
women are people too it sounds funny to
say it like that but they're people as
well like they're not
you know they're not like a you know
just a way to have sex or you know an
emotional like
i don't know like island or whatever but
they're actual people who have feelings
and you know it can hurt somebody to
just take advantage of somebody
just to have sex like the idea with the
red red pill a lot of times is
uh i see a girl you know i have sex you
know i
pretend that i really like her and want
to be with her and then i have sex and
then i dump her
and that idea is absolutely [ __ ] up
that's just using somebody as a means to
an
end and not an end of itself
i think there's a lot of uh resentment
and fear of loss
in there that you know i can't be loved
for just being me
like it has to be status or money or
whatever
yeah it's just a very simple way of
looking at you know it's easy
oh um yeah as that was actually exactly
what i was about to say it's a very
simplistic view
of human relations um and using
like evolutionary psychology is still a
burgeoning field and we still don't know
everything
but the thing about the red pill is that
they say that they are an authority on
this so
as you were saying earlier uh the actual
ideology
is men are polygamous which means they
try to find as many women as possible
and
essentially spread the seed and have as
many as have as many men or have so
sorry
have as many women as possible um and
impregnate as many women as possible and
women are hypergamous
which means they try to find the
top-tier man
in their lives um and try to get
impregnated by that
person but it really and completely
sidelines
the entire emotional process behind
relationships
and it's all about tricks and it seems
like devious and
it by itself is part of the seduction
community and
it's it in itself is basically like
saying you
are a beta and we are chads
so we know what's best um so in order to
have sex
you need to listen to what chad said
that's essentially what it is and it's
very intoxicating how they recruit
what do you guys think that that people
who are a fan of red pill philosophy
would say about y'all
that we're weak yeah that we are blue
pills
yeah or beta so for what it actually is
i think also are you all simps is that
an
another no it could be a symbol
it's a little bit different i would say
i i'm
so what do you guys think about that are
you weak i'm just kind of
i'm just kind of annoyed by all of the
language period
like it suffuses the internet like
honestly i it annoys me and i don't
care really because i try to treat
people on an individual basis
but it's still there nonetheless
and you can turn it around i would say
like most of the time with these red
pill guys they don't invest
emotions into the relationships and they
try to stay
away from that and i don't want to get
hurt i would say
in these short-term pleasures because
you you can
you can keep like a fantasy alive and
just have the
not the thought of like a
woman that is not a human but more like
a
status symbol and a number you can say
like how
many girls you have slept with and
i would say there's a lot of emotional
detachment from these guys because
i think many of them have been hurt in
the past and they just just don't want
that to happen again
yeah i agree our problem was that we
didn't want to
face our emotions so we use porn as an
escape
and with the red pill the idea is
there's no emotional aspect to
talking to women so there's no reason to
have to worry about facing emotions it's
kind of like exactly what we're trying
to avoid it's like it's very like
stimulus response
it's like not emotional at all it's like
i'm trying to get
these inputs if i were to i mean i'm
going to draw kind of uh
yeah go for it uh i was gonna i was
gonna say for me personally
um i'm still trying to think like
is it wrong to be overly sexual because
because i've had a sexual relationship
before right
sexual transactions i would say and the
girls
in those relationships they didn't mind
they wanted to be a transaction
but at the end of it i felt emo
emotionally not completed
like i didn't feel fulfilled emotionally
and that's what
really strayed me away from just having
transactions as i was calling with girls
but they didn't mind so i'm like well if
they don't mind
why is this so wrong so i think i'm kind
of neutral on the topic
um i do think the internet has made it
very
easy to over sexualize and
you know build kind of societies or
whatever like red pill
um i think it's a i think it's a side
effect of the internet but i might be
wrong
and how kind of culture and porn since
it's so accessible how it's integrated
in the culture
so if i'm hearing you guys it's
interesting because i think moon was
sort of suggesting that
emotional hurt and the avoidance of
emotional hurt basically has like a
couple of strategies one is that you can
become addicted to porn and that allows
you to have an escape
the other is that you can actively and
intentionally sort of objectify women
remove emotional emotional stuff
from uh relationships and it kind of
becoming transactional
it almost sounds to me like like you
know there's a fork in the road
and and you know a common like a 13 year
old kid on the internet could
wind up like start in one place and
could wind up
in any number of communities that share
a common route
what do you guys think about that
absolutely absolutely
i think i agree interesting so
once again maybe a conversation for a
different day because we have
um you know a couple of other things so
like
yeah may i add two two little things
first of all
um i know we are all guys here but
i've read online that girls have similar
issues
some girls so if you are like a girl
watching this stream
it's not only guys that have been
addicted to pornography masturbation
and the other thing is i don't think we
are really
i mean i think we are weak like
on like the emotional aspect because we
still like
need that numbing effect but when
i see chats i would suspect
uh use red bull i always think like at
least we
are conscious of it and we are actively
trying to
fight against it and we are like one
step ahead of them
so what i've heard too is let's say i
was 16 years old when i first started
watching porn all the time
and let's say for the last you know
let's say six years let's say i'm 22 now
i've watched porn every day i'm pretty
much like
emotionally i'm still 16 years old
because i
never really faced any emotions since i
was 16.
so i never really grew up in that sense
that's kind of a common problem i've
seen with some people
yeah i want to talk a lot i mean this is
something that i've been writing a lot
about about how like
um is a community like we're stunted
developmentally like we get stuck
sometimes in terms of our growth and
it's it's almost like we stall
and i've been thinking a lot about how
to help people like get unstuck
i don't think i get that could you
elaborate that a bit
yeah so it's a half form thought um
annie first of all
but basically like you know moon was
saying that
he feels like he like when he started
watching porn every day like he didn't
continue to develop as a human being
like even at the age of 22 he sort of
still has the emotional
like his his you know emotional skill
level hasn't leveled up at all so he's
like stuck
at like level five or whatever he wasn't
so he hasn't been gaining any xp
and just as a community i think we tend
to get developmentally stuck in a lot of
ways like
in terms of the development of our
social skills in terms of our ability to
understand and manage our emotions
in terms of expectations that we have
for ourselves in terms of like really
really simple stuff like
how to plan and execute tasks
i i think as a community we're sort of
developmentally stunted like i think we
don't have good role models
so um you know recently we had a we had
a couple weeks ago we had a group of
female gamers who came on and i think
that like the the men that they interact
with online like
don't know how else to act
can i say something because i actually
wrote an
exam on it today in developmental
psychology
and i read something from
1973 and
it was like psychoanalytic stuff but it
basically talked about that
the adolescence phase like between 12
and 20 is the time where the sexuality
really develops
and because like today
in the text he says that in this time
you seek
for like sexual like
sexuality in your peer group and girls
in school and stuff like that
but at that time no one has the
idea of internet porn and in
psychonautic theory the
reality principle is really important
where you have to adapt to
your reality and i think with
online stuff and especially porn and
video games you can really escape into
another world and i think your
the human brain doesn't grasp the idea
of virtual reality and so
because there are when you go out and
want to
like get a girlfriend there are so much
more
challenges you have to overcome and you
have to go through
difficult feelings like feeling
sometimes worthless or unlovable and you
don't
experience these things with porn and
you don't go through these little
crises and so i think that is something
really important on the developmental
side that
there are so many more ways to just
escape the
usual normal um developmental
tasks a human has to go through
yeah absolutely that's a great point i
think we're
we're developmentally stunted for sure
is a community
um so let's kind of
shift gears a little bit so like you
guys were kind of
a common theme that's come up and and
even in terms of like the red pillars
in their emotional detachment we've
talked about escapism
we've talked about numbness and numbing
feelings
and we've also talked a little bit about
um how nofap
tends to bring out feelings
so can you guys explain to us a little
bit about like
you know what is it that you that porn
helped you escape from
how did it help you escape and then
we'll kind of cover
what happens when you stop escaping
um i think it's uh i think it's all
right uh
i think it's a a good point to kind of
base off from flo what he said
i think porn gives a a one-sided
relationship
so for me i try and escape my horrible
relationship with my parents
which was not obviously sexual but um
it was it was a very toxic uh horrible
relationship
um very abusive and uh porn kind of
doesn't have the other person to talk to
just kind of
you get what you want you you get
exactly what you want in seconds and
yeah in regards to
numbing um like one of the first things
i told my psychologist
um the way i feel when i
watch porn i have no idea what time it
is
i don't even know how much time i spend
on the computer
at that point i um
i have like tunnel vision into my pc
like i don't even notice anything around
me
which
basically shows itself when i um when my
place is like really
um
like dirty and i didn't like make my bed
or something like that
um because i would just like
watch my pc only and nothing else
and um while i'm watching porn i
have no worries i don't think about any
stressful thing
i have no anxiety like it was pretty
hard not to
watch porn today because i was so
nervous to be
here and um
it just like helps with like every
feeling you want to numb basically
it's got you it's like you have like
this little bubble like this little safe
little safe bubble of pleasure that like
everything outside of it is just not
there
i had a circuit oh okay
um i did this was i just needed to get
this off my mind because i'd say that a
lot of what
uh buddhism talks about is the
renunciation of the ego
and pornography is essentially
that uh heightening of the ego and a lot
of
uh drugs and psychic uh you know
things can also heighten the ego in this
way i would say that porn is a
maladaptive
coping mechanism first of all and it is
also
in a sense the worship of the self with
a harem of imaginary woman
and your brain really does not know the
difference so every time you masturbate
to a fantasy
um uh it can cause and i mean there are
symptoms
like low brain performance brain fog
memory issues
when you masturbate because of that like
refraction period
where it says your brain is telling you
or your body is telling you you have
orgasm
you can now just relax and do nothing
and i would say
last point that my emotional issues
kind of stem from like not really ever
having like a good sexual relationship
i'm 22 right now i've never been in a
sexual relationship
let alone a relationship with with a
girl and i'm courting this girl right
now and every time she doesn't respond i
know she works a lot
i'm just like oh she's not responding uh
my brain is just like go find another
woman to talk to and for me it was just
always
porn and that numbed my feelings for the
longest time
i would say i'm emotionally stunted um
like moon was saying
i'm still stuck in the mind of basically
like an 11 year old because that's when
i started using
um every time you masturbate to escape
a feeling i would say it's a maladaptive
coping mechanism
and it can cause serious harm to your
brain and
going on nofap and stopping fapping
allows your brain to return to normal
that symptomology
slowly but surely disappears
moon i saw you nodding and smiling at
some point too
yeah um going off of what you said
earlier too is easy is
uh almost like you know we have the hole
in our heart like a god shaped hole as
you described it
and filling that with porn is an easy
way to like
it's almost like a band-aid you know you
don't heal that hole or you don't fill
it with anything
you know worth while but you cover it up
and kind of ignore it for a while
and it builds up and um for me
what [ __ ] kind of comes up whenever uh
whenever i like
you know get into a streak is kind of
like usually what i would use it to uh
like numb was like feeling lonely or uh
depressed
and you know i wouldn't feel alone
whenever my brain thought i had a
partner on a screen
so you know i could go to bed and i'd
you know fall asleep just fine because
i'd be like you know
my brain thinks i have a partner and i
kind of just [ __ ] with the entire
wiring of my head and how
my brain thinks of things and [ __ ] like
that
so let me ask you guys a question why is
it so
hard to have a hole
in you right like i don't know how else
to ask question but like
we're using this kind of terminology
that you have you have this like hole in
your heart that
is in the shape of god so like what
makes
like why is that a bad situation like
why does some
like you know what about your life has
is intolerable
so that you read this in the first place
yeah i've heard describe also like being
like a shell of a person
and like you almost feel empty inside
it's kind of like a similar idea to that
i mean you don't want to feel empty
inside or a shell of a person you want
to be
your whole true self and so what what
makes like what is that feeling of being
a shell of a person i like that
terminology a lot
um it's almost like just living life on
autopilot you just kind of like you know
you wake up
you do your your [ __ ] you kind of don't
really think about things you're kind of
like in a constant state of like being
almost like
i guess sedated in a way not really
sedated but like you're not really
checked into
reality you're kind of like living it's
like the brain fog like we were saying
earlier
you're not really like seeing clarity
and you're not like trying to improve
yourself
you're kind of like it's like
surrendering and being okay with being
less than normal
and like you know i'm not happy with
where i'm at
but because i use porn every day i can
ignore that and
i i'm okay even though on the inside i'm
[ __ ] up on the outside i can be okay
i um i feel like while you're
um relapsing like oh well you
addicted you don't really notice that
whole like at all
like um you think it's
like you're fine and your emotional
state is like really fine but once you
quit
you just realize that there is a hole
and um
because you have been like numbing your
emotions for
such a long time it is even harder to
deal with that hole than it would have
been if you
just learned how to deal with things
that don't work out
as well or something like that so let's
talk about that for a second
so how did you guys come to
nofap and how did y'all make a decision
to
to try to stop masturbating
um probably uh your brain on porn
um i don't know how many people here
have
like heard about that a website right
it's a website
well it was a video by this guy um gary
wilson and he has like a whole
presentation on it and everything
and it just really got in my head that
you know i noticed
the emotional and physical and
perceptual distortions but i didn't
think about it in terms of
like an actual addiction and after that
i went to the subreddit and
i mean really it had been five to six
years of
trying to stop relapsing rationalizing
trying to stop again that sort of
pattern
um for me a friend recommended to me for
my depression
it really helped him and uh
i didn't think much of it at first i
thought it was kind of just more of a
challenge
uh but um i realized for me in my
journey
that uh escapism is the worst thing for
me
because i'm just avoiding all my
problems that i need to be facing in my
life
and porn is easily one of the easiest
ways to escape
so i made it i wanted to i'm trying to
get rid of all of my escapism like in
video game
escaping mechanisms like video games
twitch and or limit them
and um porn is just one of them and i
thought
well what can i do to ask to not use
porn as an escaping tone
nofap is what came to mind since a
friend recommended to me a while ago
and what has been y'all's experience of
nofap
well i'm sorry yeah for me yeah for me
um at first i didn't really feel
anything i felt like i'm just doing a
super challenge
but over time i uh of like a week of
relapsing and
a week of not being of being on nofap um
while i'm doing nofap i felt very
energetic and i felt very um i felt
more alive and i felt like i'm starting
to take action more
um and uh when i'm relapsing uh i just
felt horrible i felt like i'm being
consumed
so while on nofap for me in my
experience i felt more
free i feel like i'm not being
controlled my i'm taking my own actions
i'm myself right uh and it's
it's the same with any other escapism i
think yeah
this one to me seems especially strong
because it's so
like um it's so carnal
and it's so obsessive um
i think the first week usually i notice
for most people the first three days of
the first week
tends to be the hardest um and it'll
usually fall in that pattern
uh they'll feel like a boost of energy
i'm starting to feel normal again
and then from a week to two weeks
that that you know that that dopamine
thing starts to go down and there starts
to be that withdrawal feeling again and
that seems to be whenever all the
negative feelings start coming up again
and this will go in waves so um once it
comes to like
two weeks to four weeks to six weeks
that's when
um you'll start to feel
and see some some perceptual healing
like
uh motivation to be around friends uh
not sexualizing people like a lot of
those things get better
um the farthest i've gotten so far has
been like 45 days
moon 45 days at sci-70
um flow believe it or not like a year
right yeah
um it was one year
basically um one last day so
364 days um
because i thought like why celebrate a
year if you can just [ __ ] it up on the
last day
but um um
that's when i realized that like
basically masturbation wasn't
the issue for me because i um i didn't
make a year without pornography but i
made a year without masturbation so
i realized that that wasn't
like the fight i had to go through
and um go ahead
finish first um like the effects
[Music]
um like the main effects were that i
got very emotional um
it was like the first time that i cried
in a few years that
i was able to even experience good days
and bad days
because beforehand i had just like the
same
[ __ ] every day and it really didn't
didn't feel any different
so i had some ups and some downs
which was really exciting
and i would cry to like
i don't know i think like stranger
things
um like series finales and stuff like
that
because it was just like overwhelming
seeing like emotion
in in like a series or something and um
at that time i got together with my
girlfriend right when i stopped
and i think i still like owe
that time to her because like
my whole like a part of my whole is not
like feeling
like loved and respected and i got that
from her and
so it went really well like for the
first few months because i
i didn't really need to
deal with those issues because i
felt loved and i felt respected yeah
definitely for me
there are two things first of all i
wanted to say most people assume when
they try
to quit and that's what i heard from
many friends that it just
builds up builds up it's up and i don't
really feel
the benefits of feeling more confident
they just feel
really really horny extremely and it's
really
uncomfortable for them and i felt the
same but at some point
your brain realizes that it doesn't get
any more porn
and just starts to focus on other things
and for me also that was the time when
i've
really felt like connected to my
emotions
and could i could really show my
emotions because i always wanted to
talk to people and laugh and
um like show yeah basically show my
emotions to people
and that was possible in that time and
also
i think you can't just quit porn and
then
like if you are addicted it has already
taken
like a seat in your brain and you need
to fill that seat with
something because i know from that time
it was
the feeling of god and like like you
said flow
like the feeling of love like with god
it was just like an
infinite source no matter where i go and
i was bike riding a lot in nature
and just seeing a tree was for me like a
symbol
of the creative power
and love of gods and so i really had
a good replacement for the porn
addiction
i can agree with that um i've i mean as
far as like if we're going to separate
this from
like like psychology and trauma and just
talk about the spiritual side of it
it's like if you're doing it along with
different practices it's
fantastic it's beautiful it's a very
very wonderful thing
um go ahead go ahead okay um
yeah i think there must be a reason why
you should be doing nofap like i don't
think
you're gonna succeed if you just say oh
i'm just gonna try it
i think you gotta have like a like a
passion i guess almost like
to for me it's to better myself in
general right to to battle my depression
my anxiety
so for me i find more success when i
think about like
what i'm how i'm trying to help myself
so let me ask you guys a question what
when you guys start to do nofap what
comes
up um
i i felt like a huge loss of identity
when i stopped like um
i remember that i was like sitting on my
bed crying with my girlfriend next to me
because
um i had like no idea
what my dharma was like i had like no
sense
um in life and i didn't know who i was
because
um i just
like there were like these emotions that
i couldn't figure out
and they overwhelmed me and i um
i actually feel like at that point i
stuck to
like the um
sense that overcoming the addiction is
now like the plan
i'm gonna go with like my identity and
um i feel like that makes
like the relapse especially hard and the
shame that comes with it
because i'm basically um
doing something against my personality
if i relapse
yeah kind of like uh saying is like
uh i'm currently on like day 50 of nofap
and
i felt like some more like energy and
motivation and like search for dharma
like search for purpose
to like you know you know i'm like young
20s so i'm kind of like finding where
i'm going to go with my life
and i have more energy in life just like
i've been doing all these things that
i've been putting out for years like
meditating working out um things like
that
and i'm also like looking for like a
future life goal
and life purpose and not just like
sitting in the same spot
and you know in my own self you know
hate or self sadness
i'm actually moving forward in life but
i mean i thought like negatives
like you guys are you guys are sounding
so positive yeah
yeah i'm gonna find my purpose in life
like right
bro but you know does it sound like it's
a fun ride
yeah can i play something which happened
to me very recently it's
yes long but very recently for me at the
moment my hurdle is like seven days
and recently i got to 13 days but at
starting at day 7 i just cried
every single day for around 30 minutes
to like an hour
and it was just i felt like it was just
all the stuff
i've been pushing away and for me that
would be
like a lack of connection to another
human because for me also like
these i've never been in a relationship
and it was something that
is like constantly on my mind and i've
always pushed that away
especially in that time where
i had this long streak even beginning
like the longest week broke for me
because
also that time started to like in my
mind i was just saying
oh you know you need to get a partner
you need to get a girlfriend
and i had some bad stuff
happening and that area and so
it has been always something that i
pushed away all the time
and also like with mgtow like that was
like oh yeah
i'm just a perfect independent man i
don't need a woman i
i just stay away from that but i know
for myself
i feel like that for me is escapism like
i know in my heart there's the
desire for a relationship but i've just
ignored that
all my life and i feel like now it is
just all
hitting me in the face
i will say the the very hard thing about
nofap is
um it takes you out of the it takes you
out of the loop right um
takes you out of what you're escaping so
uh first few days or
weeks you you will have to face your
problems
and it's very very hard and it takes a
lot of willpower
and um also when i relapse
for me i i get devastated it it's
horrible it's one of the worst feelings
i've ever had in my life
every time every seven days or whenever
i relapse i i can't it's it's horrible
it makes me feel very depressed i feel
like i'm not taking action i'm i don't i
don't have any willpower i'm not
capable it is very devastating
bob did you want to say something
we were talking about negative emotions
on a streak right yeah
yeah so like i
i agree with everything that they've
said um it's the feeling is like
there's that emptiness but there's also
um
like grief from my dad came up like
um frustration uh
you know loneliness like outside was
talking about
you know like all these things that were
um that were pushed away or not
processed
and definitely the more you do it and
the longer
it goes like the deeper you can
get in there you know and kind of pull
some of that stuff out
so uh yeah it's easy oh um i would say
that a lot of what the negative emotions
are like it's kind of like when you
bottle something up like
a carbonated drink like this it's like
every time you well i mean that's
literally fattening but
um like every time you like shake it up
it like bottles them up even more so
that when you do
release like if i were to take the cap
off of this after shaking it
it explodes and you feel all these
emotions come to you at once and you're
like
so this is what anger and grief and
sadness feel like
and some people call that the flatline
some people call that there's a lot of
different things to call it flatline is
normally like a depression or something
but it
does refer to um the like negative
emotions that you can experience but
i do find that if you're able to
overcome those negative emotions that
i become a lot more productive and happy
for the most part it's just that every
now and then
i have to feel i think i think flatline
is a different thing i think
what i heard from experiences from other
people flatline is a state where
your brain basically shuts off the
sexual area or something like that and
you have people report that they have no
libido
and they feel like after they have they
have the feeling when they
like after they have just relapsed for a
certain period of time
and people say that is the time where
the brain just shuts everything down
and you have like this sort of numbness
again but it's just that the brain can
really
heal itself and
i never had that personally but it's
just like
just worth the wording because that is
something also people record
so how do you guys so zizi is saying
you know if you can overcome the
emotions
how do you do that how does that
actually happen
all this like you guys are opening up
you know
all this past trauma feelings of sadness
loneliness
this goes back to like friday's stream
but a lot of it is like finding a
therapist can really help i know i
actually have a therapist and
talking with her helps me deal with a
lot of my emotional [ __ ]
um as far as like by myself what i can
do is
sit with the emotion and understand it
either like you know meditate be mindful
be with
it and try to resolve it or realize if
it's not really an emotion that
i'm actually feeling it's just a thought
that i think is an emotion just let it
go
how do you sit with an emotion
um i guess normally my instinct is to go
like
watch twitch youtube you know watch porn
and avoid it but instead what i can do
is uh
just do nothing just sit there and like
you know observe like either my mind or
my body or how i
uh react to it and almost just like
understand what it really is
and not just instinctually avoid it
yeah learning to meditate has really
helped me with that
um for meditating for like two years now
and just um being able to
see the emotion arise is like
so powerful already um
sometimes um when you don't have any
option to numb yourself
um yeah you basically just sit there
like i was sitting with my girlfriend in
the
in the car and something came up and i
was just
like really trying to feel
what it felt like to be sad um
and yeah just started crying and didn't
didn't
stop myself basically but just waited
and
um saw what it was
what helps me at the moment is just
giving my
past or just seeing myself and all the
things that have happened to me as sort
of like a story
and so because i was always very afraid
of
like talking to girls and approaching
them is it has been a really big problem
but when you actually try to fix
such the problem of yourself it feels
extremely good and extremely meaningful
and i think that is also like it gives
the whole
let's say it's called a journey a lot
more spirits
and it's there's something definitely
that has helped me
um for me i feel like i'm still in a
journey trying to understand my emotions
and i
i have tried seeking therapy but it's
kind of very hard because of like trust
issues and
um but what has helped me is taking
action
so um i've been doing cold showers and
i've been
exercising and running and um
it really helps with willpower and um
that's what's helped me kind of like
understand your emotions i'm trying to
understand my emotions and then take
action to
solve them or face them or you know
under
at least kind of embrace them in a way
rather than avoid them with porn
does that hurt to face your emotions
though
this is something i was about to say um
i think of it like like when you're
sitting with like a really negative
feeling
i think there's something courageous
about it because you
have to have it dwell inside of you like
if it's grief
or if it's pain or if it's anxiety you
know um
there's there also seems to be like an
element of um
like self-forgiveness is really useful
just like
understanding that like this is not
wrong necessarily it's just
it is what it is it's part of you
and so speaking of self-forgiveness
what's it like to relapse
how does that happen
how does it happen or how does it feel
both
wha what leads to a relapse and then how
do you feel afterward
i'm going to run off real quick and come
back i drink too much water sorry
for me personally i would say it is when
i lose focus because
currently i have i would say i have a
dharma
and i have a clear reason why i want to
stop this
and it happens in times of boredom
when i just lose focus on what i do want
to do with my life and i just
sort of and most of the times i am just
like mindlessly
browsing on youtube videos or watching
youtube videos
and that is the time
like when relapses happen the most for
me is this in times where i lose
a side of the big picture i would say
um yeah i agree with losing focus i
think it's for me
is uh i'll find myself always relapsing
on a day where i don't kind of do the
habits that i said i would do
so if i said i'm going to wake up early
and take a cold shower and go for a run
and if i wake up at 2 p.m instead of 8
a.m
and don't take a cold shower i'll take a
hot shower i'll find myself
saying oh i'm okay i won't relapse today
but then eventually i will
uh so taking action and staying
consistent not being consistent and
losing focus
really uh goes into makes me relapse a
lot
for me it's uh different because even if
i have like the greatest day
and i did everything that i wanted
there's still like the same chance that
i will relapse
um it's
very much like automatic there are
things that
trigger me for example like seeing like
thumbnails on youtube
or something like that um it often
comes with being tired being exhausted
being stressed
[Music]
experience experiencing feelings that
i want to numb basically like feeling
sad or feeling lonely
and the relapse itself
once i've like
done a certain step for me probably if i
type in something in like my url bar
it's already too late
like i still have thoughts like i need
to quit now
i don't want to do this but there's no
point because
it's like one step too late already
and like while
i'm relapsing feel great don't feel
anything
don't need to worry about anything and
then right afterwards
like it's lots of shame
lots of um feeling like
i um
i've just it's a it's like pure failure
basically
because um yeah disappointment
um i've disappointed myself i've
disappointed
my girlfriend like everyone basically
and it really um yeah messes with your
day
but for example the last time
that i relapsed i was able to call
people from this chat
and was able to have a really great
afternoon because
i was able to share those emotions with
them and all of them
know exactly what i'm talking about
how do you feel about yourself when you
relapse
please can you tell them i was just
going to say how do you feel about
yourself when you relapse like what are
the thoughts that you have or
yeah since uh for me personally since
when it's
when i feel like i'm not taking action
when i relapse
i just blame myself very very much for
not being responsible not taking
responsibility and uh
not taking action it's a horrible
feeling um
i feel like uh i'm the only one that
could have prevented it and i did
nothing about it
so um my parents described me as a
generally shameless individual i don't
know why i'm like that
or maybe i just found that shame isn't
really useful to prevent
relapse so some people will feel very
ashamed and that's okay
but i'd say that sitting in that feeling
can
cause you to relapse more often
so really there's a there's a rocky
quote where he says like
it's not about um how hard you get hit
it's about
if you can get hit and keep moving
forward so really and truly it's all
about
every time you relapse there's this
thing called like a relapse autopsy
and there are stages of a relapse i
think bob can expand on that more
um like the desire the trigger or
something like that
and um you can look at it like what what
caused me to relapse well what normally
causes me to relapse is i use a system
called blast which is
bored like bored lonely angry
sad or tired and sometimes tired is
thirsty and there's also another one
which includes
hungry um and i'm always i'm normally
tired angry or lonely like oh the girl i
like didn't text me back well she works
like 72 hours a week dude like
of course she doesn't have all this time
she can't like you know give all this
time to you
but even then like my the irrational
part of my brain is like
oh you gotta it's just like well
whatever like
she's she's whatever just go you need to
find some other form of
digital companionship and that's what
causes me to relapse
yeah a relapse is a long chain i would
say it's not just
like you type it's it's not just typing
in the url
it's for me it starts even before that
sometimes
when i come home from work and i
sometimes start to eat foods i shouldn't
be eating
that is when i feel like
i crumble a bit and then i just
can't keep the discipline up and then
most of the time it starts like this
okay so let me ask you guys a question
um
are you going to relapse
yeah no i say no i believe in you men
so if you know you're going to relapse
how do how does that correlate with
shame or control
right because up here we have annie
saying i'm the only one that can do
something if he's like i'm definitely
going to relapse
how do we sit with those two thoughts
um i would say that uh relapse is
part of recovery relapse is a part of
most people's recovery
and um like as i was saying earlier do
the relapse autopsy figure out
why like um and the thing is
my friend in the addiction community he
said put up a defense
you need defenses and uh as flo was
saying earlier
a good defense is a community because i
would say um
there was one video i watched which said
the opposite of
addiction is connection so find a group
find
um if you like 12-step programs find a
sponsor there's stuff like sla
that can that can help uh or just find
an accountability partner
um find like things that help you set
your streaks like i use
done um that's an app on on the app
store
and it helps me a lot to like keep
pressing that button each day it's kind
of like the replacement like
every time i press that button and it
says oh you've made it two days you made
it three days you made it four days
it's really all about defense and
trying to find ways to root out the
causes that make you relapse well i'm
gonna add to that
and say that in my experience in that
channel
uh it never seems like shame helps very
much
but i i try to reorient it towards
you should learn about the process
what you're feeling why it happens
during the time
it's it's it's not
entirely your fault because it's part of
your being and
part of the culture that you're inside
you do have some control over it but
you can forgive yourself but i was like
that too
like i was there was a period in which
i went from a great deal of shame to
feeling neutral about it like it was
going to happen and i just needed to
watch it to
not really feeling that much shame
anymore and
this is a point where i have the most
control over it
i think it's important to know to
understand that relapsing is part of the
process
and for me i found myself that the more
and more
relapse the more more i understand why i
shouldn't be
like i'm facing my emotions more and
more and
i i know i i and and i feel like every
time there's less shame
last time that i relapsed there was less
shame than the time before
because i i i understood i took more
time to understand why
i'm relapsing and uh last time it was
because of emotions the emotion became
too much
and i understood that okay well
i'm doing what i can i'm starting to
face my emotions more so okay i
understand that
if i start facing my emotions more next
time i won't relapse as much and i won't
be
as shameful because i know i did i tried
right
um yeah yeah it's not the end of the
world
so i'm gonna try to just shift a couple
topics because we're
actually almost out of time so we've got
maybe about 15 minutes left
um so let me ask you guys what is what
is your understanding of like what's
brahmacharya
um sad guru is on the path to the divine
it's like the first stage of life i
think
from like it ends at the ages of 20 to
25. i just read the wikipedia article
but my understanding is is
one on the path to the divine is that is
what a brahmacharya is and for me it
means
um avoi it's like abstinence from from
things that are pleasurable and the
pursuit of joy
you described it as big chillin in the
last time
last stream i think yeah
what does that mean you said it
okay um at the end of like i think the
second porn stream
okay yeah so so
okay i'll i'll explain what i mean by
that is somebody else want to offer a
definition or their understanding
um i think about it as sort of like a
universal
discipline um of
all sensory desires and apparatus trying
to pull
away from being pulled outside of
yourself
and trying to cultivate
inner strength and um
i guess uh
nature okay i have a more
secular view of it but for me it's just
like
like the age around 2025 is just
the time where you give up your
childhood pleasures and need to start to
face
reality and live in reality and start to
become
a member of the society
i would say and giving up the pleasures
to fulfill some duty in the society is
like my current understanding of it
um for me it's uh
kind of like not being a slave to
pleasure
or pleasurable desires and kind of more
like seeking gratification and
fulfillment
from like long-term goals so like um
porn is like i'll just do it for a few
minutes and i'll get like an instant
pleasure whereas
it's like reading a book it might not be
pleasurable at the moment but
you get more more of a fulfillment over
time or gratification over time
okay those are all good definitions so i
i have some
thoughts to share but before we get to
those or if you guys want me to go first
i'm happy to
i guess the last general question that i
think we should explore is like where do
you go from here
now if if you guys have thoughts about
that i'd love to hear them otherwise
i can try to sum up some stuff but
i want to give you guys kind of a
platform like what's next yeah
hello um can i can i ask you a question
about that because
like i know that all of us have
like some kind of trauma and
um i'm not even sure if
we are able to deal with our emotions
without like getting therapy and
like figuring out what our hole in the
heart is
and dealing with that because sometimes
it feels like a fight that i can't win
right now
and that's really frustrating and i
um yeah i just want to know if if we can
even
do it because um i would rather know
that
it's something that i can face after
having like 20 years of therapy then
like um fighting every day and
not being yeah not knowing if we can
handle it
yeah so what i'm hearing from flow is is
there hope
for victory
yeah anybody else have uh
i would say this is something which is a
huge cliche
in the uh 12-step programs that i've
been in
but just one last thing basically is
don't give up until the miracle happens
and
what is the miracle who knows what it is
your life has changed completely
after the first week you might find that
things
really and truly have changed and a lot
of the things you might perceive
as negative at first will become
well slowly and surely it's it's not
about superpowers it's about
returning to baseline it's about
removing the symptoms of your
addiction because uh the thing is you
don't know
what water is until you're out of it so
you don't know what brain fog is
until you don't until you feel what
brain fog
like what it feels like not to have it
so does anybody else have questions
about like where to go
or thoughts about where we go from here
otherwise i'll collect my thoughts and
then try to answer a closed question
bob you can go first thank you um
i was going to say that that is a
process you know this is all
not these aren't discreet things i don't
think of it as
like there's a specific end point um
every day has potential for analyzing
your emotions
for trying to grow and be in the present
moment
it just takes work and you should be
honest with yourself that it may take a
lot of work but you can get there
you can feel better
yeah for me the whole story thing is a
big
is helping me in a big way because
i know the things that have happened in
the past and i can't change them
but i want to make sure that
i can overcome it because it's
really is beneficial to my dharma
and i want to be an example of
that it is possible to overcome the
problems you had in the past
and many great people had big issues
in their childhood and they didn't have
a perfect childhood and it's
and i think in a way overcoming
hardships gives you meaning it gives you
the feeling of power
and moving forward and i would say
that focusing on the future and building
a future
is something that i want to do and i
would even go so far
as to say that it's something anyone
should do
with regards to that because
it takes time to accept the past and
sometimes
you have to battle with traumas for the
rest of your life
but i think giving it some kind of
place where it has some meaning and
where it feels
like very personal and where you can
maybe even even help people
with that that it is something that is
like
very holistic and
good in a sense
any go ahead yep i think so you asked
what's next and i think for a lot of
people it should just be therapy
i feel like there's a lot of people in
chat right now that need it and are not
taking action to
to take any therapy and that's me that's
me i'm not doing it and i've been
avoiding it
and i think it's also finding a dharma
in my opinion
it's really it really helps the journey
it makes it much easier if you have a
purpose
and you have a reason to keep going um
and i just want to make that clear to
chat uh you get uh
if you guys need help you know i think
it's important to
okay so i'm gonna just think for a
little bit okay
try to collect my thoughts because i
want to highlight a lot of stuff
so overall this has been incredibly
helpful this is my
this is my notes from the page session
so there's
there's a lot to say
so give me just a minute
okay so the first thing that i want to
point out to people that are watching is
i i want you guys to pay attention and
maybe go back and watch the vod
i want you guys to pay attention to the
language that
people here use right so like the first
thing is that if we think about porn
addiction
what i'm hearing from you guys is like
almost like y'all are zombies
it's like like there's no like
awareness right it's like you guys use
these phrases like
autopilot my life is revolving around
this like you guys
really sound like zombies like from
movies where they just want
one thing and and it's interesting
because there's a certain like
neutrality like is a zombie unhappy like
it's a little bit unclear
are they unsatisfied are they hungry
absolutely
they're always hungry but it's not like
they're sad they're just hungry
and what we hear from you all about sort
of like you know pieces that are like
missing within us like that's what you
try to fill
with like porn or other addictions
because there's that hunger
and even in buddhism there's this idea
of like between
earth and hell there's like this middle
layer which is the realm of hungry
ghosts which isn't quite hell
but it's just for souls who are always
hungry and they never get filled up so
they seek pleasure they seek pleasure
they seek pleasure
and they never become satisfied
and so if you listen to like what these
people are saying if you guys like
really listen to
you guys i'm talking to twitch chat now
a lot of the questions
that we get asked like how do i
dot dot dot how do i find internal
motivation
how do i be less depressed how do i get
in touch with my emotions
like these are the questions that people
from our community ask and the
interesting thing is you guys should
listen to what they're saying because
they've actually y'all have done all
that
right you guys have found actually
bizarre you all have found the answers
because what we hear from you guys is
you know um like annie's talking about
you know taking cold showers every day
people are talking about like
you know finding relationships talking
to girls sitting with your emotions
learning how to deal with your emotions
finding purpose in life like grappling
with finding purpose in life getting
connected to other human beings like
this is what our community is missing
they don't know how to feel their
emotions they don't know what they're
feeling and you guys are like
i feel shame i feel like i [ __ ] up
i can understand flo earlier was saying
sometimes you think it's an emotion but
it's actually just a thought
right like that's that's what the people
in our community need to understand that
understanding
the other thing is that you guys talk a
lot about understanding
right so so like you guys aren't solving
any problems which is one of the really
confusing things for our community is
like they're like what do i do and my
answer is you don't do anything
what you do is you notice and notice
creates change
and it's kind of like what what's easy
was saying that there's a relapse
autopsy like what's the value of that
what do you do
the value is not about like figuring out
what the value is not about
doing the thing it's about figuring
out what to do that's where the change
happens
when your mind studies yourself and you
understand yourself
that's what gives you the power to do
because the problem with our community
isn't that they don't know what to do
everybody knows what to do they just
can't do it
right and he's saying like we all need
to see a therapist i'm included
like he knows he needs to see a
therapist why isn't he doing it
it's not a lack of what to do it's a
lack of like
understanding how you work so that you
can't do the things that you should do
and so how do you guys how have you all
succeeded because i actually think of
y'all
largely as success stories which may
sound weird because i hear you guys i
hear it in your language and it's
interesting because what you say is like
why do you relapse it's a loss of focus
which is bizarre right that's not what
we would expect it's not just a trigger
but it's a loss of focus and if we think
about you know how do you move forward
in life how do you find internal
motivation
how do you do things every day like this
is what our community needs
it's a loss of focus it's not a
it's actually not a lack of motivation
this is something that's subtle but like
needs to be understood
you know on january 1st when you make a
new year's resolution that you're going
to lose 10 pounds and you're going to
eat healthy and you go to the grocery
store
and you buy like all this healthy food
that's not
that's not a lack of motivation you have
plenty of motivation
the problem is that your mind wavers you
lose
focus on your motivation the
motivation's there it's just your mind
starts thinking about other things
and as you start to think about other
things then
bad behaviors start to arise again so
the key here is about the focus of the
mind because when y'all's mind is in the
right place
then you can control the behavior and
when your mind wanders then the behavior
controls you
which gets to this other idea of like
who are you and what is the behavior
because you guys are talking about this
thing
right like you use the phrase like
people were talking about this thing you
guys are like almost like you become
porn elementals and this is my favorite
like thing that i've stumbled upon in
stream recently
that you become one with the thing and
and and even if we if we like listen to
like flow flow saying that like
i've lost the battle before i even type
in the url
right so you become like one with this
thing and then you lose control and then
the scary thing is that there's actually
i don't know if you guys like this make
sense
but flo is actually trapped and he's
watching it happen
there's a part of his mind that is doing
something but flow's true his self is
watching it and he's screaming he's like
don't do it
don't do it but his mind is like [ __ ]
you flo
we're doing it right you know it's
happening and you know that you don't
want it to
and and the real flow is there and he's
watching
and he can't stop it and that that boat
of sale
so now this like gets to an important
thing about like okay how do you control
this thing so the first thing to
understand is that there's like
there's a brain but that's not
necessarily you
right so there are issues of like
dopamine and stuff like that which we'll
let's just talk about that for just a
second
so like y'all said so human beings have
evolved
to procreate that's why orgasm is so
pleasurable
right like it's it's pleasurable because
like if we didn't have a drive
to orgasm we like wouldn't procreate
so it's evolutionary that like
procreation and orgasm is like the most
like the highest goal of like a being
and so it's really really dangerous when
you guys have a shortcut to that feeling
because that's the end goal and if you
guys
can watch porn on your on your computer
screen or a mobile phone or
you know whatever and like why do you
need to do anything so if you guys are
thinking about like it's interesting
because a community
a question that we get from our
community is like how do we get
motivated
and now we can kind of see because it's
almost i i think it was andy who was
kind of saying that like
when you like you don't feel like doing
anything after you masturbate
and when you do it a ton you get this
brain fog
and what does that even mean it's like
it's sort of like this
complete lack of motivation like i
almost kind of think of you guys as sort
of like
pothead zombies right that's what brain
fog is
it's like you're just jerking off all
the time and like you're not really
doing anything and you're sort of like
you're not really even alive you're like
some sort of weird half-life
kind of creature and
and so you know it's tricky because
there certainly is dopamine and then
like it you know as you as you orgasm so
this is like just now talking a little
bit about spirituality
so the interesting thing is that a
blissful state is actually a no mind
state and one of the
quickest ways to get to a blissful state
with awareness is orgasm
so that's why tantric sex is actually
such a powerful technique
it's because it's a meditative practice
that brings you to like
a point of no mind so you're aware but
you have like no
thoughts you have no emotions you have
no feelings you just
exist purely in that moment which is
what orgasm is which is why it's so
addicting
and so meditation is actually the
process
of cultivating the mental state of
orgasm at all times
and when you have that state that's what
moksha is moksha is liberation or
enlightenment
it's essentially a state of perpetual
orgasm
and and not to say that it's actually
perpetual orgasm but it's the state of
consciousness
that orgasm creates for a few moments
that's what mork does and that's why
people use so satguru uses this word joy
so the word is anand it's bliss
and and now we get to something kind of
interesting which is like when you
meditate you start to do this stuff
as you start to feel feelings like how
is that good like isn't that bad
isn't that what you want to escape from
and someone said something about like
there are ups and downs but those feel
it feels good to feel them and now we
get to a really really important point
about spirituality which is that the
enlightened person
is not free of pain they have a certain
tranquility
with respect to the ups and downs that
allows them to somehow appreciate the
bad things in life
and that [ __ ] is op so that's your
ultimate salvation
imagine for a moment that a good thing
in your life and a bad thing in your
life
is something that you can deal with in
the same way
that you don't have to retreat from
badness
that is the most op buff you can ever
get
because suddenly things that are boring
or shaming are not things that
restrict your behavior they don't
control you anymore
and ultimately what i see you guys doing
is is a journey of control
that's what this is it's understanding
and control it's a journey of
how to control the self so now we get to
brahmacarya
so brahmacarya means to dwell in god
brahman really which is cosmic
consciousness or universal consciousness
and it means to have your mind focus on
things
on the divine as opposed to get lost in
desires
so brahmacari is sometimes translated as
celibacy
because it but really what it is is
non-lawfulness you can still actually
have sex
and be a brahmacari it's just you're not
allowed to be horny
so it it's it's control over it's it's
about
not losing your mind in the desire
right so like even even when we think
about like i'm kind of envisioning like
this the scenario where flo is like
he's opening up his browser and he's
like typing something into his url bar
and in that moment his mind is lost in
that
desire even though flow's aware of it
but like that the mind is kind of like
on autopilot at that point there's
like autopilot autopilot autopilot
that's what we've heard from you guys
over and over and over again so the
value of brahmacharya is that
you know as you guys grapple with this
and i want everyone who's watching to
really like understand this
these guys have grown immensely like
they understand this [ __ ] in a way that
very few people in our community do
and bizarrely like that's because
they've been grappling with themselves
for a long time
this is what happens this is what
spiritual growth actually looks like
it's grappling with yourself right and
it's like sort of saying like okay like
this is what my mind is doing
and then we see all these kinds of
effects like an appreciation for
negative emotions
which is bizarre the ability to sit with
it the ability to like feel better
afterward the ability to like process
and be somewhat past it
um
yeah like there's just so much stuff
about like being on autopilot like
the same [ __ ] every day like that's the
problem of our community
and what i'm hearing from you guys is
when you all know fat for a while
you don't it doesn't feel like life is
the same [ __ ] every day
and that's what living a life with
awareness is
and so bizarrely i think that nofap is a
wonderful spiritual tool because
you guys are constantly looking at
yourself because that's the only way
that you can
succeed with no fat you have to be
watching your desires
like you have to be aware of your
boredom
your not laziness what was it boredom
anyway whatever the blast actually is
angry angry yeah
yeah blast right right so like you guys
are watching yourself and all you have
to do is watch yourself
and then you'll start to gain control
and then as you gain control like
suddenly you get these buffs which is
like
sadness does not impact your action
that is one of the most op buffs shame
does not
impact your action you're able to sit
with it and that too even when we use
the phrase
sit with it you're no longer an
elemental at that point
because you can't when you're when you
are it that's when you're an elemental
the literally the process of sitting
with it is for flow to be there
and then the emotion or the desire or
the urge to be here and you're just
chilling with it and it's there with you
but that means that you are not
it it creates separation and over time
you'll control it
that's what happens
so when when zizi said that addiction is
a spiritual malady like i completely
agree
it's also a biological melody it's also
an energetic
malady but it's absolutely a spiritual
malady this is what i think is basically
lost in western understanding of the
mind
is that we think of it as exclusively
psychiatry
which are is there dopamine stuff is
there addiction stuff is there escapism
does therapy help
is there trauma like absolutely all of
those things
and that doesn't explain all of it
because there's also this level of like
hungry ghosts where there's something
within you
that just wants to like eat and eat and
eat and it never gets filled
right the more you masturbate like it
doesn't work
um yeah so like
where do you like is there hope for you
guys absolutely
you guys are way further along the path
than you realize
i mean flow's here asking the question
is there a hope for me and like the dude
has gone
364 days
without relapsing and relapse i agree is
part of the process like
you know so is there a hope for you
absolutely i think you guys are further
along than you realize
and at the end of the day because like
you said it's not
you know it's it the this this thought
pattern that arises in your mind is porn
addiction
is separate from actual like sexuality
and connection with another human being
and over time if you stop feeding it
it'll die
out the problem is that like it's grown
into a pretty big tree because you guys
have been
fertilizing it and watering it and
feeding it since the age of 10 to 12.
right so it's going to take a couple
years for it to completely die out but
you don't have to wait a couple years to
start making significant progress
what i'm hearing from you guys is that
you all are looking for your dharma
you're finding motivation
you're learning how to relate to women
like even when zizi says
i see my insecurities like that's what
this community is about
and like he sees his insecurity and once
he sees it then he can start to like
deal with it right he's like oh she
works 72 hours a week it has nothing to
do with me and that's how you start to
be like comfortable in a relationship
when they don't like text you back
it's because you acknowledge that your
insecurity doesn't prey
on a normal occurrence in the outside
world because this is what our mind does
it find something completely normal and
it preys on it
oh they didn't invite me to the party
i'm the only person who didn't get
invited
oh [ __ ] i changed my cell phone number
no one had a way of getting
a hold of me but we don't care our mind
doesn't care
because the insecurity is what we
believe when we become the insecure
elemental everything around us
feeds our insecurity and we just can't
see it
so overall i think you guys are doing
fantastic
um you know i think
i think just keep at it and the last
thing is i mean as you guys have already
said it sounds like the community has
been helpful
and so like keep engaging the community
and like
you know it sounds like you guys hang
out on our discord which is cool i
didn't know that [ __ ] like this happened
i mean i've always wondered whether
we're actually helping people or not
and and after hearing you guys i
actually feel pretty good about the work
that we're doing because you all have
grown immensely it's crazy
i never thought i would be able to talk
about this kind of stuff on
like in like these are higher level
discussions about like
brahmacharya like what it means and sort
of building awareness
and how like that's gonna happen like
everyone's wondering
how do you process your emotions you
guys are processing your emotions y'all
are doing it
everyone's like how like i don't know
exactly how but y'all are doing it
when when flo is sitting there in a bad
crying next to his girlfriend
and he's being the ultimate beta cuck
like that's
that's that's processing your emotions
yeah and then like over time those
emotions will burden you less
and they like won't weigh on you and
once they stop weighing on you
then you guys will be able to like move
forward without that [ __ ] on your back
and people were talking about you know
great people suffered from
like some of them suffered from great
things i think that's the reason they're
great
that's where greatness comes from it
comes from overcoming
challenges and triumphing and
understanding yourself
and the last point that i'll say is like
dharma so everyone's asking like how do
i find my dharma you guys
i've really done a bad job of explaining
this you don't find you're talking about
your dharma finds you
right so like healthy gamer like i
didn't i didn't like wake up
at the age of 20 and say like i'm gonna
try to help gamers
understand nofap that's absurd
it's dumb even six months ago
it was like we're gonna help gamers with
no that was it's absurd
so the boat best thing that you can do
is exactly what you all are doing
which is that you're you're not ready
for your
your karma will give you your dharma
when you're ready
and if you guys continue living like a
zombie on autopilot your
target will never present itself
it's kind of like saying like where's
the final boss like the final boss is in
the final boss room
but if you just hang around in like the
starting zone
afk then you're never going to find the
final boss
so your first dharma is to yourself this
is what the brahmacharya the stage of
life
that zizi was talking about the first
stage of life is brahmacharya
which is weird because it's kind of got
a double definition but what this means
is like it's kind of the student phase
that you should prepare yourself
and once you guys are ready for a
relationship a relationship will happen
once you guys are ready to save the
world the world will need saving
but y'all aren't ready yet so continue
doing the work that you're doing
continue working on yourself
continue leveling up and then eventually
the final boss will show up
and when it shows up you all will either
be ready or you won't be ready
right now life is giving you guys a
little bit of a pass because it's not
like you don't have aggro yet
which is good because you're not ready
and as someone i can tell you guys you
don't find dharma it just dumps itself
in your lap like
when you guys are ready thousands of
people on the internet will start asking
you for help
and right now there are people asking
it's crazy right
because like y'all have had struggles
and y'all have been there for each other
so that's your dharma
how did you find that
through your streams actually i would
say
through all the through all the pain and
negativity and suffering
it led to that understanding yeah
so our streams are karma right flo so so
you were ready to help someone
and when you were ready the stream
showed up and and sent you to our
community
but ultimately it's you who decided to
join the discord it's you who decided to
hang out in the brahmacharya
section and it's you who decided to both
share and support other people
so that's exactly what i'm saying like
dr k arose because
you were ready for that next phase of
your growth
and so when you guys are ready someone
will show up and this is the whole point
that we've been talking about is like
it's not it doesn't have to be me
you guys are doing the work and just
keep doing it and there's like
dude so much hope
so much hope you guys have no idea like
how far
like y'all are killing it that's that's
the greatest thing i've heard
ever yeah seriously i i i don't think
you're saying that
i don't think you guys understand how
you actually sound like you should go
back and watch the vod
because you guys have behind you what
half of our community thinks is the end
goal
and so like yeah like i know fap for 364
days and i felt motivated and
started to get in touch with my emotions
and like you know had my girlfriend and
like
cried in front of her and maybe she
dumped you we don't know but sounds like
she didn't
she's still there right so like what the
[ __ ]
you know and and it's like people are
like you guys have a history of trauma
and then we have like
you know odd size like roller coaster of
like atheism spirituality religion and
self-growth like
that's what people want right it's like
i want to wake up and be able to take a
cold shower every day like and
and go running like that's you guys are
living representations of the goals of
most of our community
and you ask me is there hope the [ __ ]
[Music]
that's what the shame really does to you
like it really leaves you helpless
yep so good so so
flo that's why there's hope for you
because now you're able to see
that your lack of hope is not a truth
it's your mind and it's the shame and
it's not
actually that you don't have hope like
that's it right there that's the
understanding i don't know if you guys
saw that
that's the shift he just did it
that's what the shame does to me right
his earlier question was do i have hope
and now he says that's what the shame
did to me he's now separate from the
shame
he's separate from the hopelessness and
it's in that space
that growth happens and that's the space
in which you get control over your life
fantastic all right we meditating
yes please yeah let's do it okay so um
all right so we're gonna this may be
something that you guys are actually
good at we're gonna do something that's
a little bit more open today
which is just how to sit with yourself
okay so like this is what i want you
guys to do i want you to sit up straight
not gonna even do any like breathing or
anything like that actually yeah let's
do this one
um okay so
what i want everybody to do we're gonna
play a fun game so everyone asks a
question
you know how do i change on the inside
and then what i always say is like all
you have to do is be aware
and notice and that's sufficient for
change and then everyone scratches their
head and is super confused
so we're going to teach you that right
now so i want you guys to close your
eyes
i want you to put your palms face up on
your knees
and focus on the sensation of your palms
and now notice that you have a certain
pattern of breath
and i want you to focus on your
breathing
but don't change it
don't control it just observe it
so what's happening to your breath as
you begin to observe it
now i guess that if you guys are trying
this practice that your breath
changes as you observe it
stop changing it let it go back to
normal
and try as you might the breath will
likely change if you observe it
so now what we're going to do is
focus on any sensation your body will be
sending you signals
learn to sit with them
the signal may be a thought
it may be an itch
it may be a tension
there may be a demand a desire to change
position
watch that impulse
now let yourself come back
so is anybody able to
observe the breath without changing it
so i'm seeing some people shake their
head no some people are saying yes
it's very it's like a razor's edge
you can feel you can feel get to a point
when it's when you're doing okay and
then it'll snap back again
and try to control it and you can feel
that
movement of the mind or the will
or whatever it is it's very subtle
i i feel like i started noticing my
breath and i started controlling it
but the more and more i kept noticing my
breath i kind of like
stopped focusing on it and i kind of
like started calming down
and then the moment like i started
having a thought about my breath that's
when it started changing again
so by itself like when i just by trying
not to control it
i stopped controlling like thinking
about controlling it
it started like kind of taking me in and
when i thought about it started
controlling again
what was the thing yeah flow going
i think what bob said was basically like
meditation summarized that you like
you notice this um
line that you can that you are able to
cross and you do like reps
like you notice that you get lost that's
basically
like meditation and you do it again and
again and again and again
yeah so my natural breath was pretty
shallow
and whenever i gave it awareness i
started actually breathing deeper and
longer
breaths
same with me so i mean
i i think that the main point here is
that like first of all
what was uh where you
[Music]
how did you guys feel when you were
meditating when your mind was focused on
the breath
i'd say uh content is how i felt in that
moment there wasn't really like a worry
on my mind i was kind of just
okay very peaceful yeah
right so it's interesting because
sometimes in order to get that focus
you have to have a task that's difficult
and so to retain your focus very quickly
to observe the breath but don't change
it because that requires effort
and then the other interesting thing
is you know uh annie was kind of talking
about how like
the more he focused on it the more it
changed but the more that he let go
focusing on it
the more natural it became and then but
at the same time like
like it sounds like letting go focusing
on it was
shattered by the presence of a thought
and then he tries to control it again
and so now i'm gonna turn
that's a very important principle that
very few people understand
so now i'm gonna go back to flow do you
have hope absolutely
all you need to do to keep on
progressing is stop worrying about
progressing
that's steep right it's exactly what
annie said which is like when you're
trying you're like am i doing it am i
doing it am i doing it and then your
shame is gonna say no
but how did you go 364 days
by focusing in the present and not
trying to go 364 days
if you say to yourself i'm going to be
sober for a year you're [ __ ]
i feel like with meditation though
there's like this
way you can have not enough focus
like there's like that you can be too
relaxed
and you can have too much focus and you
need to realize both of them
in order to get at like the point that
you need to be to meditate
so that point is best translated
into english is transcendence
there's an axis of focus on focus
and when you move beyond that axis
that's what transcendence is
so it's not that there are good days and
bad days we prefer good days over bad
days
but sometimes we can we can actually
appreciate both of them for what they
are
so we move beyond the axis into
transcendence and that's where
tranquility comes from
right because that's your money state
thing yeah
um i've spoken to the other guys about
it but
um i'll be attending a retreat
my first retreat and um i'm really
looking forward to it i think it's going
to be a lot of pain of a personal
retreat
um and as we've already been talking
about meditation is there anything like
you want to
give me for the retreat like any advice
or something
no okay
if you're yeah i mean if you're doing a
vibration treat you're doing a
passionate retreat there's nothing that
i say now that is going to influence
your experience of the retreat trust me
what do you think of like uh double mean
detoxing so i was actually thinking i
was finding myself like
being more uh like not relapsing by
controlling my environment more
and i was thinking maybe taking a week
of uh
removing all my electronic devices maybe
that's a bit too much
i'm thinking but uh maybe just like a
call and text phone and
just that so i can just communicate with
people if i need to but
i don't know what's your thoughts on
that i mean i think a dopamine detox
is a really good idea but it's hard to
do and should be set up properly
so i think the hardest thing about a
dopamine detox is people just sort of
like start doing it
but like i think that your environment
is very very important
so just for people to understand so
you're dope like just like any other
receptor in your brain you have a
certain amount of like dopamine
tolerance and so like if you think about
if you haven't played games for a while
and you sit down and you play a game
it's like a ton of fun
and the more you play the less fun it
becomes but then you don't even know why
you're playing it
you can't stop but it's not actually fun
that's when your dopamine tolerance sort
of builds up
right and it's just like caffeine
tolerance or nicotine tolerance or
alcohol tolerance
where you can get a certain amount of
dose and it doesn't create the
particular
effect and then you can grow dependent
on a minimum dose
so if you're addicted to caffeine if
you're dependent on caffeine
you know it's not that caffeine actually
like wakes you up it's just you become
dependent on it to function normally
so dopamine detoxing is the idea of like
resetting your dopamine circuitry which
actually takes like honestly
around two weeks three weeks and so i
think the biggest thing is that you have
to set up
activities that you can do like you
can't just
like replacement works way better than
abstinence
yeah so i was kind of thinking of for
the week to kind of focus more on
reading books like i was going to buy a
bo i bought a book
and uh i was going to kind of read the
book in the week and run focus on just
running
and reading the book yeah so like how
many hours are you going to run
a day anywhere from about uh
i'm like an endurance runner so i like
to run like anywhere from six to
eight miles in a day and uh probably i
don't know anywhere from two to four
hours with a bunch of breaks in
yeah okay and what how many hours are
you planning on reading
um hopefully anywhere from two to four
hours maybe i mean i don't read at all
so i think
reading like the first few days was
probably gonna be something like
i'm just gonna sit on my bed all day and
stare at the ceiling because i have
nothing else yeah that sounds like
that's not gonna work well
right so so like if you're gonna run for
two hours and you're gonna read a book
for two hours
then i think it's optimistic to think
about what you're gonna do for the other
12.
so so like this is where like i think
good dopamine detoxes involve a bunch of
stuff
right so like sometimes people will do
meal prep to learn how to cook
cooking and cleaning can take a long
time like i think about a couple of
projects
like are the things that you want to
work on
i was going to work on some music as
well yeah okay so like like i
you know the last thing about a dopamine
detox is it it's good if you do it with
someone
so you can check in with like i
recommend checking in with someone like
you know find two or three people
check in with people like for 15 minutes
a day and say like hey how's it going
like
what's your plan for the day things like
that
and then and then i mean i think
dopamine detoxes are like sort of
semi-naturally done like when you go
sometimes on like vacation and stuff
like if you go hiking
or something like that like i you know i
know cobit is tricky and depending on
where you are and stuff but i i really
think about like packing your day
because your your enemy's gonna be bored
right so meal prep cooking
reading is great and then think about
other things that are also like somewhat
stimulating
and the last thing about a dopamine
detox is understand that reading is
going to be hard
right it's not going to be fun at the
beginning
i think about an audio book too that's
something that you can kind of do that's
a little
besides reading
sound good yeah yeah i i kind of thought
that it's a bit too extreme to just
you know read a book and just run i i i
think i would succeed
anyway that's why i wanted to get it i
mean i think it's fine to try
right like so so you don't have to
succeed to learn
and grow and then like you can i mean at
the least maybe
in three days you'll relapse but at
least for three days like you'll be
better at reading books
i'm just trying to change like um
the hap like i feel like i have such a
dopamine fix that i need every day on
youtube
on twitch or whatever so i'm kind of
trying to transition slowly to like
because i don't like if you're going to
play video games all day and then you're
trying to read a book
in my case the book is unreadable i can
read a paragraph
because it doesn't give you as much
dopamine so i'm trying to kind of train
myself to
go enjoy the simpler things right so
guys
more gratification absolutely dude so
we're we're a little bit past time guys
so we gotta
call it but thank you all so much for
coming and sharing your stories and
continuing so much strong work that you
want to thank you
yeah thanks again thank you that was
awesome take care
and good luck to you all thank you thank
you bye chat
okay
um so we're gonna thank you guys very
much for coming
on wednesday we have cutie cinderella
and hopefully that was helpful take care
and best of luck